Publish Unit 0, Unit 1 and Bonus Unit 1 (#99)
huggingface/deep-rl-class: units/en/unitbonus1/how-huggy-works.mdx

# How Huggy works? [[how-huggy-works]]

Huggy is a Deep Reinforcement Learning environment made by Hugging Face and based on [Puppo the Corgi, a project by the Unity MLAgents team](https://blog.unity.com/technology/puppo-the-corgi-cuteness-overload-with-the-unity-ml-agents-toolkit).

> This environment was created using the [Unity game engine](https://unity.com/) and [MLAgents](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents). ML-Agents is a toolkit for the game engine Unity that allows us to **create environments using Unity or use pre-made environments to train our agents**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This environment was created using the [Unity game engine](https://unity.com/) and [MLAgents](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents). ML-Agents is a toolkit for the game engine from Unity that allows us to **create environments using Unity or use pre-made environments to train our agents**.
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface-deep-rl-course/course-images/resolve/main/en/notebooks/unit-bonus1/huggy.jpg" alt="Huggy" width="100%">

> So, in this environment, we aim to train Huggy to **fetch the stick we throw at him. It means he needs to move correctly toward the stick**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this environment we aim to train Huggy to **fetch the stick we throw at him. It means he needs to move correctly toward the stick**.
```

> ## The State Space: what Huggy "perceives." [[state-space]]

Reviewer: Is the full-stop needed here?

Reviewer 3: I'm removing it :heavy_check_mark:

Huggy doesn't "see" his environment. Instead, we provide him information about the environment:

> The target (stick) position
> The relative position between himself and the target
> The orientation of his legs.
> Given all this information, Huggy can decide which action to take next to fulfill his goal.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The target (stick) position
* The relative position between himself and the target
* The orientation of his legs.

Given all this information, Huggy can use his policy to determine which action to take next to fulfill his goal.
```

> <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface-deep-rl-course/course-images/resolve/main/en/notebooks/unit-bonus1/huggy.jpg" alt="Huggy" width="100%">

Reviewer 2: This same image was shown slightly above, should we remove this one?

Reviewer 3: :heavy_check_mark:

> ## The Action Space: what moves Huggy can do [[action-space]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Action Space: what moves Huggy can perform [[action-space]]
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface-deep-rl-course/course-images/resolve/main/en/notebooks/unit-bonus1/huggy-action.jpg" alt="Huggy action" width="100%">

> **Joint motors drive huggy legs**. It means that to get the target, Huggy needs to **learn to rotate the joint motors of each of his legs correctly so he can move**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Joint motors drive Huggy legs**. It means that to get the target, Huggy needs to **learn to rotate the joint motors of each of his legs correctly so he can move**.
```

## The Reward Function [[reward-function]]

> The reward function is designed so that **Huggy will fulfill his goal** : fetch the stick.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reward function is designed so that **Huggy will fulfill his goal**: fetch the stick.
```

Remember that one of the foundations of Reinforcement Learning is the *reward hypothesis*: a goal can be described as the **maximization of the expected cumulative reward**.

Here, our goal is that Huggy **goes towards the stick but without spinning too much**. Hence, our reward function must translate this goal.

Our reward function:

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface-deep-rl-course/course-images/resolve/main/en/notebooks/unit-bonus1/reward.jpg" alt="Huggy reward function" width="100%">

- *Orientation bonus*: we **reward him for getting close to the target**.
- *Time penalty*: a fixed-time penalty given at every action to **force him to get to the stick as fast as possible**.
- *Rotation penalty*: we penalize Huggy if **he spins too much and turns too quickly**.
- *Getting to the target reward*: we reward Huggy for **reaching the target**.

If you want to see what this reward function looks like mathematically, check [Puppo the Corgi presentation](https://blog.unity.com/technology/puppo-the-corgi-cuteness-overload-with-the-unity-ml-agents-toolkit).

## Train Huggy

> Huggy aims **to learn to run correctly and as fast as possible toward the goal**. To do that, he needs at every step, given the observation he gets to decide how to rotate each joint motor of his legs to move correctly (not spinning too much) and towards the goal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Huggy aims **to learn to run correctly and as fast as possible toward the goal**. To do that, at every step and given the environment observation, he needs to decide how to rotate each joint motor of his legs to move correctly (not spinning too much) and towards the goal.
```

The training loop looks like this:

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface-deep-rl-course/course-images/resolve/main/en/notebooks/unit-bonus1/huggy-loop.jpg" alt="Huggy loop" width="100%">

The training environment looks like this:

> ADD IMAGE TRAINING ENVIRONMENT

Reviewer 2: todo

Reviewer 3: :heavy_check_mark:

It's a place where a **stick is spawned randomly**. When Huggy reaches it, the stick get spawned somewhere else.
We built **multiple copies of the environment for the training**. This helps speed up the training by providing more diverse experiences.

Now that you have the big picture of the environment, you're ready to train Huggy to fetch the stick.

> To do that, we're going to use [MLAgents](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents). Don't worry if you have never used it before. We're going on this unit to train on a Google Colab notebook and then you'll be able to load your trained Huggy and play with him directly in the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do that, we're going to use [MLAgents](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents). Don't worry if you have never used it before. In this unit we'll use Google Colab to train Huggy, and then you'll be able to load your trained Huggy and play with him directly in the browser.
```
